.TH JWTDEBUG 1 "December 2024" "jwtdebug" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jwtdebug \- decode and debug JSON Web Tokens
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jwtdebug
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fITOKEN\fR
.br
.B jwtdebug
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fB\-\fR
.br
\fICOMMAND\fR | \fBjwtdebug\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B jwtdebug
is a command-line utility for decoding, inspecting, and verifying JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).
Tokens are processed locally and never leave your machine.
.PP
By default, jwtdebug uses smart extraction to find JWTs in any input, including
Authorization headers, cookies, and JSON responses.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Display Options
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Show all token parts (header, claims, signature, expiration).
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-header
Show token header.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-claims
Show token claims (default: true).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-signature
Show token signature.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-expiration
Check token expiration status.
.TP
.B \-\-decode\-signature
Decode signature from base64 to hex.
.TP
.B \-\-raw\-claims
Output only raw claims JSON, suitable for piping to jq(1).
.SS Verification Options
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-verify
Verify token signature.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-key\-file " " \fIFILE\fR
Key file for signature verification.
.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-expiration
Ignore token expiration when verifying signature.
.SS Output Options
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: \fBpretty\fR (default), \fBjson\fR, or \fBraw\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-color
Enable colored output (default).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.SS Input Options
.TP
.B \-\-strict
Disable smart extraction; expect exact JWT input.
.SS Other Options
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress informational notices.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.B \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-save\-config
Save current settings to configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-completion " " \fISHELL\fR
Generate shell completion script (bash, zsh, fish).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version information.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid token format.
.TP
.B 3
Signature verification failed.
.TP
.B 4
Configuration error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Decode a token:
.B jwtdebug
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIs...
.TP
Decode from clipboard (macOS):
pbpaste |
.B jwtdebug
.TP
Show all token information:
.B jwtdebug \-a
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIs...
.TP
Verify signature with RSA public key:
.B jwtdebug \-V \-k
public.pem token
.TP
Pipe claims to jq:
.B jwtdebug \-\-raw\-claims
token | jq '.sub'
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.jwtdebug.json
User configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/jwtdebug.json
Alternative configuration location.
.TP
.I ~/.config/jwtdebug/config.json
Alternative configuration location.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jq (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Roberto Selbach
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/rselbach/jwtdebug/issues
